doc/source/runnova/managing.projects.rst, before:

..
      Copyright 2010-2011 United States Government as represented by the
      Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
      All Rights Reserved.

      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

Managing Projects
=================

Projects are isolated resource containers forming the principal organizational structure within Nova.  They consist of a separate vlan, volumes, instances, images, keys, and users.

Although the original ec2 api only supports users, nova adds the concept of projects. A user can specify which project he or she wishes to use by appending `:project_id` to his or her access key.  If no project is specified in the api request, nova will attempt to use a project with the same id as the user.

The api will return NotAuthorized if a normal user attempts to make requests for a project that he or she is not a member of.  Note that admins or users with special admin roles skip this check and can make requests for any project.

To create a project, use the `project create` command of nova-manage. The syntax is nova-manage project create projectname manager_id [description] You must specify a projectname and a manager_id. For example::
  nova-manage project create john_project john "This is a sample project"

You can add and remove users from projects with `project add` and `project remove`::
  nova-manage project add john_project john
  nova-manage project remove john_project john

Project Commands
----------------

Admins and Project Managers can use the 'nova-manage project' command to manage project resources:

* project add: Adds user to project
    * arguments: project user
* project create: Creates a new project
    * arguments: name project_manager [description]
* project delete: Deletes an existing project
    * arguments: project_id
* project environment: Exports environment variables to an sourcable file
    * arguments: project_id user_id [filename='novarc]
* project list: lists all projects
    * arguments: none
* project remove: Removes user from project
    * arguments: project user
* project scrub: Deletes data associated with project
    * arguments: project
* project zipfile: Exports credentials for project to a zip file
    * arguments: project_id user_id [filename='nova.zip]

Setting Quotas
--------------
Nova utilizes a quota system at the project level to control resource consumption across available hardware resources.  Current quota controls are available to limit the:

* Number of volumes which may be created
* Total size of all volumes within a project as measured in GB
* Number of instances which may be launched
* Number of processor cores which may be allocated
* Publicly accessible IP addresses

Use the following command to set quotas for a project 
* project quota: Set or display quotas for project
    * arguments: project_id [key] [value]

Commit message:

Fix rst formatting and cross-references
blueprint sphinx-doc-cleanup
bug 944385

- Fix formatting and markup issues that produce error messages
- Update TOC lists for missing/new files
- Fix a few links
- Update instructions with dependencies for building the documentation
- Updated base on review comments from oubiwann to fix trailing whitespace in modified files

Change-Id: I589152bfab9c543d2b11fa8bed2344259aa90675

doc/source/runnova/managing.projects.rst, after:

..
      Copyright 2010-2011 United States Government as represented by the
      Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
      All Rights Reserved.

      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

Managing Projects
=================

Projects are isolated resource containers forming the principal organizational structure within Nova.  They consist of a separate vlan, volumes, instances, images, keys, and users.

Although the original ec2 api only supports users, nova adds the concept of projects. A user can specify which project he or she wishes to use by appending `:project_id` to his or her access key.  If no project is specified in the api request, nova will attempt to use a project with the same id as the user.

The api will return NotAuthorized if a normal user attempts to make requests for a project that he or she is not a member of.  Note that admins or users with special admin roles skip this check and can make requests for any project.

To create a project, use the `project create` command of nova-manage. The syntax is nova-manage project create projectname manager_id [description] You must specify a projectname and a manager_id. For example::

  nova-manage project create john_project john "This is a sample project"

You can add and remove users from projects with `project add` and `project remove`::

  nova-manage project add john_project john
  nova-manage project remove john_project john

Project Commands
----------------

.. todo::

   Reformat command line app instructions for ``nova-manage`` using
   ``:command:``, ``:option:``, and ``.. program::``. (bug-947261)

Admins and Project Managers can use the 'nova-manage project' command to manage project resources:

* project add: Adds user to project
    * arguments: project user
* project create: Creates a new project
    * arguments: name project_manager [description]
* project delete: Deletes an existing project
    * arguments: project_id
* project environment: Exports environment variables to an sourcable file
    * arguments: project_id user_id [filename='novarc]
* project list: lists all projects
    * arguments: none
* project remove: Removes user from project
    * arguments: project user
* project scrub: Deletes data associated with project
    * arguments: project
* project zipfile: Exports credentials for project to a zip file
    * arguments: project_id user_id [filename='nova.zip]

Setting Quotas
--------------
Nova utilizes a quota system at the project level to control resource consumption across available hardware resources.  Current quota controls are available to limit the:

* Number of volumes which may be created
* Total size of all volumes within a project as measured in GB
* Number of instances which may be launched
* Number of processor cores which may be allocated
* Publicly accessible IP addresses

Use the following command to set quotas for a project

* project quota: Set or display quotas for project

    * arguments: project_id [key] [value]
