doc/source/runnova/managing.networks.rst, before:

..
      Copyright 2010-2011 United States Government as represented by the
      Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
      Overview Sections Copyright 2010-2011 Citrix 
      All Rights Reserved.

      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

Networking Overview
===================
In Nova, users organize their cloud resources in projects. A Nova project consists of a number of VM instances created by a user. For each VM instance, Nova assigns to it a private IP address. (Currently, Nova only supports Linux bridge networking that allows the virtual interfaces to connect to the outside network through the physical interface. Other virtual network technologies, such as Open vSwitch, could be supported in the future.) The Network Controller provides virtual networks to enable compute servers to interact with each other and with the public network.

Nova Network Strategies
-----------------------

Currently, Nova supports three kinds of networks, implemented in three "Network Manager" types respectively: Flat Network Manager, Flat DHCP Network Manager, and VLAN Network Manager. The three kinds of networks can co-exist in a cloud system. However, the scheduler for selecting the type of network for a given project is not yet implemented. Here is a brief description of each of the different network strategies, with a focus on the VLAN Manager in a separate section. 

Read more about Nova network strategies here:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   network.flat.rst
   network.vlan.rst


Network Management Commands
---------------------------

Admins and Network Administrators can use the 'nova-manage' command to manage network resources:

VPN Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* vpn list: Print a listing of the VPNs for all projects.
    * arguments: none
* vpn run: Start the VPN for a given project.
    * arguments: project
* vpn spawn: Run all VPNs.
    * arguments: none


Floating IP Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* floating create: Creates floating ips for host by range
    * arguments: host ip_range
* floating delete: Deletes floating ips by range
    * arguments: range
* floating list: Prints a listing of all floating ips
    * arguments: none

Network Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* network create: Creates fixed ips for host by range
    * arguments: [fixed_range=FLAG], [num_networks=FLAG],
                 [network_size=FLAG], [vlan_start=FLAG],
                 [vpn_start=FLAG]

* network modify: Associate/disassociate network with project and/or host.

  * :option:`--fixed_range=\<IP range\>` - Specify the network to modify by
    IP range.  Required.
  * :option:`--project=\<project name\>` - Project name to associate.
    Optional.
  * :option:`--host=\<host\>` - Host to associate.  Optional.
  * :option:`--disassociate-project` - Disassociate network from project.
    Optional, mutually exclusive with :option:`--project`.
  * :option:`--disassociate-host` - Disassociate host from project.
    Optional, mutually exclusive with :option:`--host`.

* network delete: Deletes a network.  Precisely one of :option:`--fixed_range`
  or :option:`--uuid` must be specified.

  * :option:`--fixed_range=\<IP range\>` - Specify the network by range.
  * :option:`--uuid=\<UUID\>` - Specify the network by UUID.

Commit message:

Fix rst formatting and cross-references
blueprint sphinx-doc-cleanup
bug 944385

- Fix formatting and markup issues that produce error messages
- Update TOC lists for missing/new files
- Fix a few links
- Update instructions with dependencies for building the documentation
- Updated base on review comments from oubiwann to fix trailing whitespace in modified files

Change-Id: I589152bfab9c543d2b11fa8bed2344259aa90675

doc/source/runnova/managing.networks.rst, after:

..
      Copyright 2010-2011 United States Government as represented by the
      Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
      Overview Sections Copyright 2010-2011 Citrix
      All Rights Reserved.

      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

Networking Overview
===================
In Nova, users organize their cloud resources in projects. A Nova project consists of a number of VM instances created by a user. For each VM instance, Nova assigns to it a private IP address. (Currently, Nova only supports Linux bridge networking that allows the virtual interfaces to connect to the outside network through the physical interface. Other virtual network technologies, such as Open vSwitch, could be supported in the future.) The Network Controller provides virtual networks to enable compute servers to interact with each other and with the public network.

Nova Network Strategies
-----------------------

Currently, Nova supports three kinds of networks, implemented in three "Network Manager" types respectively: Flat Network Manager, Flat DHCP Network Manager, and VLAN Network Manager. The three kinds of networks can co-exist in a cloud system. However, the scheduler for selecting the type of network for a given project is not yet implemented. Here is a brief description of each of the different network strategies, with a focus on the VLAN Manager in a separate section.

Read more about Nova network strategies here:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   network.flat.rst
   network.vlan.rst


Network Management Commands
---------------------------

.. todo::

   Reformat command line app instructions for ``nova-manage`` using
   ``:command:``, ``:option:``, and ``.. program::``. (bug-947261)

Admins and Network Administrators can use the 'nova-manage' command to manage network resources:

VPN Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* vpn list: Print a listing of the VPNs for all projects.
    * arguments: none
* vpn run: Start the VPN for a given project.
    * arguments: project
* vpn spawn: Run all VPNs.
    * arguments: none


Floating IP Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* floating create: Creates floating ips for host by range
    * arguments: host ip_range
* floating delete: Deletes floating ips by range
    * arguments: range
* floating list: Prints a listing of all floating ips
    * arguments: none

Network Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* network create: Creates fixed ips for host by range
    * arguments: [fixed_range=FLAG], [num_networks=FLAG],
                 [network_size=FLAG], [vlan_start=FLAG],
                 [vpn_start=FLAG]

* network modify: Associate/disassociate network with project and/or host.

  * :option:`--fixed_range=\<IP range\>` - Specify the network to modify by
    IP range.  Required.
  * :option:`--project=\<project name\>` - Project name to associate.
    Optional.
  * :option:`--host=\<host\>` - Host to associate.  Optional.
  * :option:`--disassociate-project` - Disassociate network from project.
    Optional, mutually exclusive with :option:`--project`.
  * :option:`--disassociate-host` - Disassociate host from project.
    Optional, mutually exclusive with :option:`--host`.

* network delete: Deletes a network.  Precisely one of :option:`--fixed_range`
  or :option:`--uuid` must be specified.

  * :option:`--fixed_range=\<IP range\>` - Specify the network by range.
  * :option:`--uuid=\<UUID\>` - Specify the network by UUID.
